since January 2020 Elsevier has created a COVID -19 resource centre with free information in English and Mandarin . the centre is hosted on the company's public news and information website . permissions are granted for free for as long as the centre remains active .
of the 62 online pharmacies found to sell Adderall, 61 were rogue or unclassi fied . adderall carries a high potential for abuse, which could lead to severe psychological or physical dependence .
96% of the accessible online pharmacies are illegitimate, of which 92% are rogue, meaning that they sell drugs without a valid prescription . the beSafeRx campaign of the food and drug administration (fda) and the Buy Safe Rx campaign (ASOP) empower consumers by raising awareness of the dangers of purchasing medications from il
traf fic to rogue, unclassi fied, and legitimate websites was low, with most receiving fewer than 5000 unique monthly visits . of these websites, LegitScript classified 50 sites as 'rogue' whereas 11 were 'unclassi fid' and only 1 site was legitimate .
rogue and unclassi fied pharmacies offered some form of drug warnings and precautions (64%), and nearly uniformly provided some form . of drug information (89%). . the locations listed on their websites were not consistent with the locations of their servers as determined by www.IPLocation.net .
of 62 online pharmacies claiming to sell Adderall, only 1 was a legitimate seller . rogue pharmacies allow the purchase of medications that could be abused, enabling the ill- advised practice of adderall use without concurrent thera- tic monitoring .
research shows that the no- prescription price differential extends to brick-and-mortar pharmacies, which offer cheaper medications . however, rogue online pharmacies often inauthentically claimed registration to bolster reputability . accrediting agencies such as NABP and PCCA should move to improve their online screening and surveillance .
a review of the literature on the use and misuse of pre-scription stimulants among college students: a comprehensive review and meta-analysis . a study by the u.s. National Institute on Drug Abuse (nida) found that rogue online pharmacies are more likely to sell prescription drugs than legitimate ones . the nabp
in 2007, the Food and Drug Administration mandated changes to drug labels for stimulants on the basis of findings of new-onset psychosis . Among adolescents and young adults with ADHD who received a prescription for a stimulant for the treatment of attention deficit–hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) the study population consisted of 221,846 patients with 143,2
the most effective treatments are methylphenidate and amphetamine, with no specification of prefer - ence for one over the other . patients with primary psychotic disorders have higher presynaptic dopaminergic capacity (an index of dpa) than controls, but no difference in dopa availability has been detected between patients with schizophrenia and
106,526 Were included in the initial cohort1,453,169 Patients were exposed to stimulants 1,343,265 Were excluded 475,495 Were enrolled in medical and prescription drug services for 1 yr 284,135 Used methylphenidate previously 496,951 Used amphetamine previously 143 Were incident
the primary outcome was an ICD-9 or ICD-10 code for a new inpatient or outpatient diagnosis of psychosis and a prescription claim for anti - psychotic medication . the washout period required that patients be enrolled in medical and prescription drug services for 365 days before initial use of a stimulant .
the percentage of patients who were unlikely to have had true psychosis was similar in the methylphenidate group and the ampheta - mine group (10.1% and 8.4%, respectively) potential confounders were defined according to ICD-9 codes, National Drug Codes, and Current Procedure codes .
a higher risk of psychosis with amphetamine than with methylphenidate could be explained by higher rate of substance use or more severe psychiatric illness . the median time from dispensation of the first stimulant to the psychotic episode was 128 days . 3.8 times as many patients received a prescription for am - p
ADHD denotes attention deficit–hyperactivity disorder, ODD oppositional–defiant disorder, and PTSD post­traumatic stress disorder . all covariates were assessed up to 365 days before (and including the date of cohort entry)
a psychotic episode was defined as a new diagnosis code for psychosis and a prescription for an antipsychotic medication . there was no differ - ence between the stimulant groups in the preva-lence of nonpsychotic depression . the percentage of patients who had psychotic episodes was 0.10% among this cohort .
a psychotic episode was defined as a new diagnosis code for psychosis and a prescription for an antipsychotic medication . the incidence was 1.78 per 1000 person-years in the methylphenidate group . 0.21% among patients who received amphetamine .
psychosis may develop in these patients regardless of stimulant treat - ment . psychiatrists may prescribe amphetamine more cautiously than other pro -viders and may screen for risk factors for psy chosis . the strengths of this study include the large population size and the consistency of the find .
n engl j med 380;12 nejm.org March 21, 2019 1138Psychosis with Methylphenidate or Amphetamine in ADHD . findings from the NIMH Multi modal Treatment Study of ADHD (MTA) in the United States .
